HACDOCS-394: Creating readme content for Java Spring Boot sample (#25)
devfile-samples/devfile-sample-java-springboot-basic: README.md

# Creating an application with a Spring Boot code sample

**Note:** The Spring Boot code sample uses the **8081** HTTP port.

> Before you begin creating an application with a {ProductName} code sample, it's helpful to understand the relationship between the `devfile` and `Dockerfile` and how they contribute to your build. You can find these files at the following URLs:

Reviewer: We don't have substitution here for Product Name. It will work on app studio repositories but not here. Just mention "Before using this devfile sample ..." IMO should be good enough

* [Spring Boot `devfile.yaml`](https://github.com/devfile-samples/devfile-sample-java-springboot-basic/blob/main/devfile.yaml)
* [Spring Boot `Dockerfile`](https://github.com/devfile-samples/devfile-sample-java-springboot-basic/blob/main/docker/Dockerfile)

1. The `devfile.yaml` file has an [`image-build` component](https://github.com/devfile-samples/devfile-sample-java-springboot-basic/blob/main/devfile.yaml#L21-L27) that points to your `Dockerfile`.
2. The [`docker/Dockerfile`](https://github.com/devfile-samples/devfile-sample-java-springboot-basic/blob/main/docker/Dockerfile) contains the instructions you need to build the code sample you chose as a container image.
3. The `devfile.yaml` [`kubernetes-deploy` component](https://github.com/devfile-samples/devfile-sample-java-springboot-basic/blob/main/devfile.yaml#L28-L41) points to a `deploy.yaml` file that contains instructions for deploying the built container image.

> 4. The `devfile.yaml` [`deploy` command](https://github.com/devfile-samples/devfile-sample-java-springboot-basic/blob/main/devfile.yaml#L43-L56) completes the [outerloop](https://notes.paulswail.com/public/The+inner+and+outer+loops+of+software+development+workflow) deployment phase by pointing to the `image-build` and `kubernetes-deploy` components to create your application.

Reviewer: I would use the devfile's outer loop link here instead of an external link

Reviewer: See the inner loop vs outer loop link you posted under Additional Resources

Reviewer: Nope

# sample-devfile-with-basic-java-spring-boot

> By default, the Spring Boot application uses the **HTTP 8080** port. You can use a devfile to define how Spring Boot interacts with your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Spring Boot sample uses the **8081** port. You can use a devfile to define the Spring Boot workspace lifecycle.
```

Reviewer: They typically are 8080 by default but ours is 8081

## Running Spring Boot from the command line

> You can run Spring Boot with the `java -jar` command, like this:

Reviewer: These files are in this repository https://github.com/devfile-samples/devfile-sample-java-springboot-basic/blob/main/devfile.yaml and https://github.com/devfile-samples/devfile-sample-java-springboot-basic/blob/main/docker/Dockerfile

> You can run Spring Boot with the `java -jar` command, like this:

Reviewer: Re "Checkout the file docker/Dockerfile on how to build this application and containerize it":

https://github.com/devfile-samples/devfile-sample-java-springboot-basic/blob/main/docker/Dockerfile contains the logic to build this repo springboot project. So your CLI commands that you would run on your laptop environment for instance, are essentially captured in the Dockerfile. 

So for instance, you raised the topic regarding if you would need the pom.xml file and executing the CLI java -jar.... They would be captured in this Dockerfile. 

Since RHTAP and OpenShift Console(ODC) are the prime consumers of this sample, they would not execute CLI outside the Dockerfile. They would execute the Dockerfile instructions. So I dont think it is necessary to make a note of it separately. I guess we are covering this topic anyways with my point "Checkout the file docker/Dockerfile on how to build this application and containerize it"

Does that sound good to you?

> You can run Spring Boot with the `java -jar` command, like this:

Author: it does. thanks!

> You can run Spring Boot with the `java -jar` command, like this:

Reviewer: Sorry, ".. build this _sample/project_ as an image"

It is the same image. To clarify from the beginning:

1. [docker/Dockerfile](https://github.com/devfile-samples/devfile-sample-java-springboot-basic/blob/main/docker/Dockerfile) has instructions on how to build this sample as a container image instead of CLI
2. [devfile.yaml image component](https://github.com/devfile-samples/devfile-sample-java-springboot-basic/blob/main/devfile.yaml#L21-L27) has a reference to the Dockerfile from point 1 above 
3. Once the image has been built using the Dockerfile, then to deploy the built image for this sample/project; we use a [devfile.yaml kubernetes component](https://github.com/devfile-samples/devfile-sample-java-springboot-basic/blob/main/devfile.yaml#L28-L41) that tells us how to deploy
4. Now to chain the points 2 and 3 together, we use [devfile.yaml apply and deploy commands](https://github.com/devfile-samples/devfile-sample-java-springboot-basic/blob/main/devfile.yaml#L43-L56), these commands reference the devfile.yaml components mentioned in point 2 and 3 above.

The outerloop phase is basically these points

:source-highlighter: highlightjs
:source-language: java

[source]
----
$ java -jar target/myapplication-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar

> ----

Author: @maysunfaisal can you write this again but use the **Add code** (< >) button so I can see what you mean?

> ## Example devfile

Reviewer: Lets not mention the entire devfile in the README. Maybe we can mention the file `devfile.yaml` and perhaps direct them to devfile.io for more information if they're curious

Author: thanks! what do we say about the .yaml? where is it?

Reviewer: it is here https://github.com/devfile-samples/devfile-sample-java-springboot-basic/blob/main/devfile.yaml

I think we can say this file defines the lifecycle of the workspace. The outerloop phase of the application lifecycle is covered by the highlighted lines https://github.com/devfile-samples/devfile-sample-java-springboot-basic/blob/main/devfile.yaml#L21-L41

Author: thank you, @maysunfaisal. what do you mean by "the outerloop phase"?
